The fonts in this archive are designed to allow the representation
of Indian-language (and similar) material in Roman script using the
Unicode character set. They are based on fonts designed by

  URW++ Design and Development Incorporated
  Poppenbuetteler Bogen 29A
  D-22399 Hamburg
  Germany

and made available under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
a copy of which is included in this archive in the file COPYING. The
chief provision of the GPL is that software licensed under it may be
freely redistributed provided the author's copyright is properly
acknowledged. As permitted under Section 2 of the GPL, I have modified
the fonts to implement the accented characters needed by Indologists
and other such scholars, using mkt1font, a program I wrote to create
arbitrarily accented Type 1 PostScript fonts. The fonts output by
mkt1font were converted to OpenType using Adobe's program MakeOTF
(part of their OpenType Font Development Kit). In developing them I
have also made substantial use of George Williams's excellent program
FontForge. The modified fonts, like the originals, are distributed
under the GPL. However, the copyright remains with URW++ Design and
Development Incorporated. The modified fonts were first created on
April 7, 2009.

This is the fourth major release of the IndUni fonts. As well as a
comprehensive set of "Indian" characters, all the letter forms
required for Avestan and for the Pinyin representation of Chinese, a
set of Cyrillic characters, a basic set of Greek letters and various
other items, the fonts implement almost the whole of the Multilingual
European Subset 1 of Unicode.* All accented characters can be accessed
in "composed" or "decomposed" form -- e.g., a-macron is accessible
both as U+0101 (a-macron) and as U+0061 + U+0304 ("a" + macron). This
is a considerable advantage, given the different possible ways in
which Unicode can be, and is, used.

The fonts work well under Windows XP, provided that Service Pack 2 has
been installed and "complex scripts" enabled. They work well with
later releases of Windows, and with Word 2003 and later. I have used
them myself under Linux and under Mac OS X Tiger and subsequent
releases.

To enable complex scripts in XP, open the Start menu and choose
"Control panel", then "Date, time, language, and regional options",
then "Add other languages". Now check the box marked "Install files
for complex script and right-to-left languages", and then click "OK".

The particular fonts in this archive are based on the typeface
NimbusSanL, which is URW++'s name for their Helvetica-lookalike. The
Greek letters are derived from Greek Arial, a set of freeware fonts
available from http://graphis.hellug.gr/el/download.html.

The file IndUni.def contains a list of the special characters
contained in the fonts, other than those created with FontForge or
imported from other sources.

Please email any problems to jds10@cam.ac.uk.

John D. Smith
http://bombay.indology.info/index.html

* For those who are interested, MES-1 is defined as follows:

  Plane 00

  Rows Positions (Cells)
  00   207E A0FF
  01   0013 162B 2E4D 507E
  02   C7 D8DB DD
  20   15 1819 1C1D AC
  21   22 26 5B5E 9093
  26   6A

  The characters still missing are uni2015 (horizontal bar/quotation
  dash), U+215B-U+215E (one, three, five and seven eighths),
  U+2191-U+2193 (leftwards, upwards, rightwards and downwards arrows)
  and U+266A (eighth note/quaver).
